---
layout:            post
title:             "[Brief Reading Day 6] GraphCoCo: Graph Complementary Contrastive Learning"
menutitle:         "[Brief Reading Day 6] GraphCoCo: Graph Complementary Contrastive Learning"
date:              2022-03-31
category:          Blogs
author:            yexinmao
cover:             /assets/mountain-alternative-cover.jpg
tags:              Graph Contrastive Learning
---

[Paper Link](https://arxiv.org/abs/2203.12821)

This paper proposes an effective graph complementary contrastive learning approach named GraphCoCo to tackle an issue that the optimization of InfoNCE loss only concentrates on a few embeddings dimensions, limiting the distinguishability of embeddings in downstream graph classification tasks. 

The key innovation of the proposed GraphCoCo approach is the erasing operation which enforces the encoder to learn complementary embeddings. GraphCoCo aims at mining information of inconspicuous dimensions rather than being restricted to scarce common “highlighted” dimensions through an adversarial manner. After the GNN encoder encodes two augmented views into embeddings, the embedding of the second augmented view is erased with the guidance of the first view. The first embedding recognizes the “highlighted” dimensions whose values are larger than a pre-defined threshold. The corresponding dimensions of the second view are then erased through masking values with zeros. Note that the erasing operation is performed only on positive pairs but not on negative pairs.

In GraphCoCo, the first embedding of positive pairs discovers the most significant dimensions and erases these dimensions of the second embedding, which is regarded as the complement of the first. The complementary embedding helps the encoder learn neglected information and enhance the distinguishability of the embedding. Extensive experiments show that GraphCoCo significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art self-supervised methods.


