---
layout:            post
title:             "[Brief Reading Day 5] Adversarial Graph Contrastive Learning with Information Regularization"
menutitle:         "[Brief Reading Day 5] Adversarial Graph Contrastive Learning with Information Regularization"
date:              2022-03-30
category:          Blogs
author:            yexinmao
cover:             /assets/mountain-alternative-cover.jpg
tags:              Graph Contrastive Learning
---

[Paper Link](https://arxiv.org/abs/2202.06491)

This paper proposes a simple but effective method, Adversarial Graph Contrastive Learning (ArieL) by introducing an adversarial graph view and an information regularizer, to extract informative contrastive samples within a reasonable constraint. The goal of the adversarial attack on contrastive learning is to maximize the contrastive loss by adding a small perturbation on the graph. The authors use PGD attack as the attack method and treat adversarial attack as one kind of data augmentations. Although adversarial training could effectively improve the model’s robustness to the perturbations, these hard training samples could impose the additional risk of training collapsing, i.e., the model will locate at a bad parameter area at the early stage of the training, assigning higher probability to a highly perturbed sample than a mildly perturbed one. The vanilla adversarial training method may fail to converge in some cases (e.g., Amazon-Photo dataset)so that information regularization is applied to stabilize the training. The overall structure is as follows:

In each iteration, two augmented views are generated from the original graph by data augmentation, then an adversarial view is generated from the original graph by maximizing the contrastive loss against one of the augmented view. Besides, the similarities of the corresponding nodes (the same nodes in original graph and augmented views) will get penalized by the information regularization if they exceed the estimated upper bound. The objective of ArieL is to minimize the contrastive loss between the augmented views, the adversarial view and the corresponding augmented view, and the information regularization.

Arieal consistently outperforms the current graph contrastive learning methods in the node classification task over various real-world datasets and further improves the robustness of graph contrastive learning.
