---
layout:            post
title:             "[Brief Reading Day 23] Jointly Learnable Data Augmentations for Self-Supervised GNNs"
menutitle:         "[Brief Reading Day 23] Jointly Learnable Data Augmentations for Self-Supervised GNNs"
date:              2022-04-17
category:          Graph
author:            yexinmao
cover:             /assets/mountain-alternative-cover.jpg
tags:              Graph Contrastive Learning
---

[Paper Link](https://arxiv.org/abs/2108.10420)

[Code Link](https://github.com/zekarias-tilahun/graph-surgeon)


This paper proposes GRAPHSURGEON, a novel self-supervised learning method for GNNs with. 

First, instead of heuristics, the authors propose a learnable data augmentation method that is jointly learned with the embeddings by leveraging the inherent signal encoded in the graph. In addition, they take advantage of the flexibility of the learnable data augmentation and introduce a new strategy that augments in the embedding space, called post augmentation. This strategy has a significantly lower memory overhead and runtime cost. 

Second, as it is difficult to sample truly contrastive terms, they avoid explicit negative sampling. To this end, they closely follow Laplacian Eigenmaps and minimize the mean squared error between the normalized representations (unit vectors) of two data points. 

Third, instead of relying on engineering tricks, they use a scalable constrained optimization objective motivated by Laplacian Eigenmaps to avoid trivial solutions. The orthonormality constraint ensures that each row is similar to itself and orthonormal to other rows. Consequently, a trivial solution is avoided. Furthermore, they improve the regularization by making a simple change and replacing the row orthonormality regularization with column orthogonality regularization to reduce computation.

Extensive empirical evaluations of the proposed method are performed using 14 publicly available datasets on three types of node classification tasks. Besides, they compare the method with strong SOTA baselines, six semi-supervised GNNs and five self-supervised GNNs, showing that GRAPHSURGEON is comparable to the semi-supervised GNNs and on-par with the self-supervised ones.

