---
layout:            post
title:             "[Brief Reading Day 11] Graph Contrastive Learning Automated"
menutitle:         "[Brief Reading Day 11] Graph Contrastive Learning Automated"
date:              2022-04-05
category:          Graph
author:            yexinmao
cover:             /assets/mountain-alternative-cover.jpg
tags:              Graph Contrastive Learning
---

[Paper Link](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.07594)

[Code Link](https://github.com/Shen-Lab/GraphCL_Automated)

This paper introduces the joint augmentation optimization (JOAO) as a plug-and-play framework. JOAO is the first to automate the augmentation selection when performing contrastive learning on specific graph data. It frees graph contrastive learning from expensive trial-and-errors, or empirical ad-hoc rules, or any validation based on labeled data.

The general JOAO framework is instantiated as a concrete min-max optimization form where the upper-level minimization follows the conventional gradient descent procedure as in the GraphCL optimization given the sampling distribution P(A1 ,A2 ) and the lower-level maximization optimizes the sampling distribution P(A1 ,A2 ) jointly for augmentation-pair selections.

A new augmentation-aware projection head mechanism is also proposed to overcome the potential training distribution distortion, resulting from the more aggressive and varying augmentations by JOAO.

With automated selection, JOAO is comparable to GraphCL with ad hoc rules from exhaustive manual tuning. Augmentation-aware projection heads provide fur- ther improvement upon JOAO. Across diverse datasets, JOAOv2 generally outperform heuristic self-supervised methods. 

Although JOAO automates GraphCL in selecting augmentation pairs, it still relies on human prior knowledge in constructing and configuring the augmentation pool to select from.
